status quo: Alan started trusting the Rust compiler (#70)
rust-lang/wg-async-foundations: src/vision/status_quo/alan_started_trusting_the_rust_compiler_but_then_async.md

# 😱 Status quo stories: Alan started trusting the Rust compiler, but then... async

## 🚧 Warning: Draft status 🚧

This is a draft "status quo" story submitted as part of the brainstorming period. It is derived from real-life experiences of actual Rust users and is meant to reflect some of the challenges that Async Rust programmers face today. 

## The story
### Trust the compiler

> Alan has a a lot of experience in C#, but in the meantime has created some successful projects in Rust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alan has a lot of experience in C#, but in the meantime has created some successful projects in Rust.
```

async fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    let mut file = File::create("a.txt").await?;
    file.write_all(b"Hello, world!").await?;

    Ok(())
}
```

This aligns with what he knows from C#, where you also change the entry point of the program to be async, in order to use `await`.
Everything is great now, the compiler is happy, so no runtime problems, so Alan is happy.

The project is working like a charm.

### Fractured futures, fractured trust
The project Alan is building is starting to grow, and he decides to add a new feature that needs to make some API calls. He starts using `reqwest` in order to help him achieve this task.
After a lot of refactoring to make the compiler accept the program again, Alan is satisfied that his refactoring is done.
His program now boils down to:
```rust
use async_std::fs::File;
use async_std::prelude::*;

#[async_std::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    let mut file = File::create("a.txt").await?;
    file.write_all(b"Hello, world!").await?;

    let body = reqwest::get("https://www.rust-lang.org")
        .await?
        .text()
        .await?;
    println!("{}", body);

    Ok(())
}
```

> He runs his project but is suddenly greeted with a runtime error? How is this even possible? His project doesn't contain any out-of-bounds accesses, he never uses `.unwrap` or `.expect`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He runs his project but is suddenly greeted with a runtime error. He is quite surprised. "How is this even possible?", he thinks. "I don't have any out-of-bounds accesses, and I never use `.unwrap` or `.expect`."
```

Maybe like this?

At the top of the error message he sees: `thread 'main' panicked at 'there is no reactor running, must be called from the context of a Tokio 1.x runtime'` 

> He searches what "Tokio" is in Rust, and he finds that it also provides an attribute to put on `main`, namely `[tokio::main]`, but what is the difference with `[async_std::main]`? His curiosity leads him to watch videos/read blogs/scour reddit,... on why there are multiple runtimes in Rust. This leads him into a rabbit hole and now he learns about Executors, Wakers, `Pin`,... He has a basic grasp of what they are, but does not have a good understanding of them or how they all fit together exactly. These are all things he had not need to know nor heed in C#. (Note: there is another story about troubles/confusion that might arise when learning all these things about async: [Alan hates writing a `Stream`](./alan_hates_writing_a_stream.md))

Reviewer: <3 the cross ref
